In this video, we will see how
the actor-critic algorithm works
on a classic control task,
the pendulum swing up problem.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
design a function
approximator for
an average reward
actor-critic algorithm
and analyze the performance
of an average reward agent.
Today, we'll investigate
the pendulum swing up task.
The agent controls the pendulum,
the controls are simple,
the agent can apply torque on
a pivot point marked
by the black dot.
The goal is to get the pendulum
to balance upright.
The pendulum starts in
its rest position hanging
down with no velocity.
The pendulum can move
freely subject only to
gravity and the actions
applied by the agent.
The state of the pendulum
is the angle of the pole,
and the angular velocity,
both are real valued quantities.
Our simulation has
just three discrete actions,
apply a constant angular
acceleration clockwise,
counterclockwise, or apply
no angular acceleration.
We use a softmax policy for
this task because
the action space is discrete.
Later on, we'll use
a different parameterization for
a continuous action variant
of the pendulum task.
The next step is to find
the reward function.
The goal is to get
the pendulum pointing
directly up and keep it that way.
So the reward is equal to
the negative absolute angle
from vertical.
If the pendulum reaches
a large angular velocity,
then it could damage
the system, that would be bad.
To avoid this, we
constrain the range of
the angular velocity to between
minus two pi and two pi.
If this limit is exceeded,
then we reset the pendulum
to the resting position.
The goal is to keep
the pendulum as close to
operate as possible at all times.
This continues
indefinitely, there
are no episodes and
no terminations.
So it makes sense to formulate
this as a continuing task.
The pendulum is interesting
for a few reasons.
The actions are not strong
enough to move the pendulum
directly to the vertical position
from the resting position.
A good policy must apply
actions that move
the pendulum away
from the desired position in
order to gain enough
momentum to swing up.
Finally, the vertical
position is unstable.
So good policy must
continually balance the pole.
Let's supply softmax
actor-critic algorithm
to our simulated version
of the pendulum task.
Before we can do that,
we have to design
our function approximator
and our policy parameterization.
The pendulum task has
a low dimensional state,
just the angle and
angular velocity.
This two-dimensional problem is
a good fit for tile coding.
The approximate
value function and
the action preferences will
be linear in the tile coding,
but nonlinear and
the state variables.
The first step in setting
up a towel coding is to
figure out the range of each
of the state variables.
This is easy for
the angular position,
it just has to be
between pi and minus pi.
The angular velocity
will lie between two pi,
and minus two pi due to
the constraint we
discussed earlier.
It's usually good to use
large tiles and many tilings.
The broad tiles enable
considerable generalization
and thus fast early learning,
while many tilings help
with discrimination.
This should result in
an accurate approximation
of value function and
the action preferences.
We use 32 tilings of
size eight by eight.
Remember, for action preferences,
we need a feature vector
for each state action pair.
As before, we simply use
a separate copy of the state
features for each action.
What about the step sizes
for the average reward,
the actor, and the critic?
That's quite a few parameters,
and each of them have
a big impact on performance.
We performed the systematic sweep
to determine
a good setting for each.
This matches the general
reason that we want
the critic to update
at a faster rate.
That way, the critic
can accurately
critique the more
slowly changing policy.
There are a few other
details required to
get good performance
on this task.
For the sake of time
we will skip those,
but don't worry, you'll learn all
about this implementation
in your assessment.
Let's look at a video of
the agent as it first
begins interacting with
the pendulum environment.
The agent begins by
acting randomly,
but it quickly
learned to add energy
to reach states
closer to vertical.
Let's skip ahead a bit,
the final behavior
looks something like this.
We added random perturbation to
demonstrate the robustness
of the learn policy.
This is like flicking
the pendulum with
your finger every
once in a while.
The perturbations are
introduced only after
the agent had learned
a good balancing policy.
The perturbations are shown with
black arrows in the video.
We can see how the trained agent
is able to recover
smoothly and is robust
to these flicks.
It's really satisfying
to watch an agent we
programmed mastering
the pendulum problem,
but we have to be
skeptical scientists too.
This is just a demonstration.
Does the agent successfully
learn to balance every time,
or do we just get lucky?
How quickly and
robustly does it learn?
To answer these questions,
we ran the experiment
100 times and average
the performance.
To measure the
performance of the agent,
let's plot an exponentially
weighted average
of the reward over
all time steps.
The error bars show
the standard error and the mean.
The error bars are quite small.
In fact, the error bars are so
small you can hardly
see them at all.
So we are pretty confident
this plot accurately reflects
our agent's average
performance on
this task with the parameters
we have chosen.
The average reward
starts off low,
but increases very
quickly off the start.
After a short time, the rate
of improvement slows,
but improvement
continues as the agent
continues to refine it's policy.
Performance peaks near zero.
This means the agent is
generally able to balance
the pendulum upright
with minor deviations.
Then it stays steady
from that point
forward. That's it for today.
We introduced
a specific implementation
of an actor-critic
learning system,
and we test it on a classic
control task. Bye for now.